Data scientists can come from a variety of backgrounds with
educational experiences that span both technical and non-technical disciplines.
For this exercise, you were asked to provide
one core strength likely to aid in data science work,
and at least one area that might need additional exposure or
training for students with different academic backgrounds.
Computer scientists have deep strengths in coding.
They may need more exposure to statistical methodology,
especially machine learning, quantitative reasoning,
and business strategy and concepts.
Statisticians have deep strengths in
statistical methodology, especially machine learning.
They may need more exposure with coding and business strategy and concepts.
Mathematicians have strengths in quantitative reasoning.
They may need a little more exposure in coding,
the specifics of statistical methodology,
and especially machine learning,
and business strategy and concepts.
Engineers tend to be strong in coding and quantitative reasoning.
They may need a little more work with statistical methodology,
as well as business strategy and concepts.
Graduates of business administration programs
have deep strength in business strategy and concepts.
They may need exposure to statistical methodology,
coding, and quantitative reasoning.
Physicists typically have deep strengths in coding and quantitative reasoning.
They may need more specialized exposure to
statistical methodology and the specifics of machine learning,
as well as introduction to business strategy and concepts.
Finally, economists have key strengths in business strategy and concepts,
and typically have strong quantitative reasoning
and basic statistical methodologies skills as well.
They may need a little more exposure to coding,
as well as advanced statistical methodology,
and in particular, machine learning.